what happens when you type https://www.google.com in your browser and press Enter?

Computers communicate to each other through IPs, but as you guessed, humans aren’t good at cramming these numbers. That’s where DNS comes in! DNS or (Domain Name System) is a naming system used to keep records of computers or services over the internet communicating to each other using the Internet Protocol. DNS simply translates domain names into IP addresses, for example, google.com would be 216.58.210.142. when a user types “https://www.google.com” in their favorite browser and presses the “Enter” key, a DNS request is made and performs a DNS lookup. The browser checks if the domain is in its cache if not the browser calls a function to do the lookup which checks if the hostname can be resolved by reference in the local hosts file before trying to resolve the hostname through DNS. If it’s not cached or found in the hosts file, a request to the DNS server is made configured in the local router or the ISP’s (Internet Service Provider’s) caching DNS server. Once the browser receives the IP address of the destination server, it takes that and the given port number from the URL and then headers are wrapped to form packets that are forwarded by NAT which translates private network addresses into globally unique addresses. A TLS (Transport Layer Security) connection from the Client establishes a public key and private key; the Client sends a Hello message to the Server and creates a handshake, using an encrypted symmetric algorithm. A connection between the server and client is established once the client verifies the server via a certificate during the TLS handshake. A finish (FIN) message is sent by the client to the server with the agreed symmetric key. The client sends the server a GET request and the server responds with a response code, 200 OK, in our case showing success, and the content in HTML form of www.google.com. A firewall monitors incoming and outgoing traffic over a network, in essence, whatever rules are set by a particular team to define what’s or who can access particular channels. A load balancer serves to distribute requests across different servers, because obviously, Google doesn’t have a single server. A web server is a software program that serves web pages to web users (browsers). It serves static content, like simple HTML pages, images or plain text files using the HTTP or HTTPS protocols. An application server works with a web server to handle requests for dynamic content, from web applications, this is what handles the business logic of an application. A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system. The content of what you search will be stored in a database.
